ONTOLOGY SOURCE REFERENCE
Term Source Name	"BTO"	"OBI"	"NCBITAXON"	"JERM"	
Term Source File	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/BTO"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/OBI"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/NCBITAXON"	"http://data.bioontology.org/ontologies/JERM"	
Term Source Version	"20"	"21"	"2"	"14"	
Term Source Description	"BRENDA Tissue and Enzyme Source Ontology"	"Ontology for Biomedical Investigations"	"National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Organismal Classification"	"SysMO JERM Ontology of Systems Biology for Micro-Organisms"	
INVESTIGATION
Investigation Identifier	"MTBLS104"
Investigation Title	"Investigation"
Investigation Description	""
Investigation Submission Date	""
Investigation Public Release Date	""
Comment [Created with configuration]	""
Comment [Last Opened With Configuration]	""
Comment[Created With Configuration]	""
Comment[Last Opened With Configuration]	""
INVESTIGATION PUBLICATIONS
Investigation PubMed ID	""
Investigation Publication DOI	""
Investigation Publication Author List	""
Investigation Publication Title	""
Investigation Publication Status	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF	""
INVESTIGATION CONTACTS
Investigation Person Last Name	""
Investigation Person First Name	""
Investigation Person Mid Initials	""
Investigation Person Email	""
Investigation Person Phone	""
Investigation Person Fax	""
Investigation Person Address	""
Investigation Person Affiliation	""
Investigation Person Roles	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Accession Number	""
Investigation Person Roles Term Source REF	""
STUDY
Study Identifier	"MTBLS104"
Study Title	"NMR based metabonomics study of Y2 Receptor activation by neuropeptide Y in SK-N-BE2, a human neuroblastoma cell line"
Study Description	"In this study, the metabolic response to activation and inhibition of Y2R was studied in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE2 was studied using high-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). Three treatments were evaluated: (1) activation of Y2R with NPY, (2) blocking of Y2R with BIIE, and (3) treatment of cells with both NPY and BIIE."
Study Submission Date	"2014-09-30"
Study Public Release Date	"2014-10-01"
Study File Name	"s_NPY study.txt"
STUDY DESIGN DESCRIPTORS
Study Design Type	"Metabonomics"	"human neuroblastoma cell line"	"Y2 receptor"
Study Design Type Term Accession Number	"http://www.mygrid.org.uk/ontology/JERMOntology#Metabonomics"	""	""
Study Design Type Term Source REF	"JERM"	""	""
STUDY PUBLICATIONS
Study PubMed ID	""
Study Publication DOI	""
Study Publication Author List	"Bo Wang, Sulaiman Sheriff, Ambikaipakan Balasubramaniam, and Michael A. Kennedy"
Study Publication Title	"NMR based metabonomics study of Y2 Receptor activation by neuropeptide Y in SK-N-BE2, a human neuroblastoma cell line"
Study Publication Status	""
Study Publication Status Term Accession Number	""
Study Publication Status Term Source REF	""
STUDY FACTORS
Study Factor Name	"Neuropeptide Y and Y2 receptorbloker treatment"
Study Factor Type	"treatment"
Study Factor Type Term Accession Number	""
Study Factor Type Term Source REF	""
STUDY ASSAYS
Study Assay File Name	"a_npy_study_metabolite_profiling_NMR_spectroscopy.txt"
Study Assay Measurement Type	"metabolite profiling"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000366"
Study Assay Measurement Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Type	"NMR spectroscopy"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Accession Number	"http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/OBI_0000623"
Study Assay Technology Type Term Source REF	"OBI"
Study Assay Technology Platform	"Bruker"
STUDY PROTOCOLS
Study Protocol Name	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type	"Sample collection"	"Extraction"	"NMR sample"	"NMR spectroscopy"	"NMR assay"	"Data transformation"	"Metabolite identification"
Study Protocol Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Description	"The neuroblastoma cells were grown in Eagle's essential medium (EMEM), supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (FBS), penicillin (100 IU/mL) and streptomycin (50μg/mL) in a 95% air-5% CO2 humidified atmosphere at 37°C  When the cells became 90% confluent (4-5 days), medium was replaced with the EMEM containing 0.25 % FBS, and was used in the incubation studies.
Three treatments were studied. Group 1 compared NPY-treated cells to a control (water) to monitor the cellular response to activation of Y2R by NPY. In Group 2, the Y2R receptor was blocked by BIIE (dissolved in ethanol) in treated cells and compared to cells treated with neat ethanol as a control. In Group 3, cells were treated with BIIE plus NPY versus NPY treatment alone to study the effect of selective blocking of Y2R in this Y2R-rich cell line. (human neuroblastoma cell line)"	"Intracellular metabolites were analyzed following extraction using the methanol-chloroform-water method as previously described. Briefly, the cell pellets were resuspended an ice-cold methanol and chloroform solution with a ratio of 2:1. The same total volume of ice-cold water and chloroform (1:1) was added after resuspension. The hydrophilic extraction was obtained by taking the top layer of the mixture after sonication and centrifugation, and the samples were dried in a SpeedVac centrifuge for about 2-3 h before storing in -20°C until prepared for NMR analysis."	"Hydrophilic cell extracts were resuspended in 200 μL phosphate buffer (0.15 M) at pH 7.4 with 1 mM NaN3 and 0.01 % trimethylsilylpropionate (TSP) in 100% D2O. "	"All NMR spectra were recorded at 298 K using 3 mm NMR tubes (Norell) with a spectral width of 17 ppm. A Bruker 600 NMR spectrometer was used for data acquisition."	"Two 1H NMR experiments optimized by Bruker (Bruker BioSpin, Billerica, MA) for metabonomics studies were run on all samples: a standard 1D pulse and acquire pulse sequence employing water-suppression using pre-saturation (zgpr) and the one-dimensional first increment of a nuclear Overhauser effect spectroscopy (NOESY) experiment with pre-saturation (noesygppr1d). All experiments included on-resonance water pre-saturation achieved by irradiation during a 4.0 s recycle delay. The 90° pulse width was determined for every sample using the automatic pulse calculation feature in TopSpin 3.1. All pulse widths were 8.5 ± 0.5 μs. The zgpr experiment was used to screen samples and ensure that pre-saturation and shimming were sufficient to collect reliable data. Shimming quality was determined by measuring the full width at half height (FWHH) of the Trimethylsilyl propionate (TSP) peak, which was deemed acceptable when the FWHH < 1.0 Hz. One-dimensional zgpr 1H spectra were acquired using 8 scans and 2 dummy scans, with 45K points per spectrum. This resulted in an acquisition time of 1.92 s. Once the spectrum was determined to be of acceptable quality the 1D NOESY experiment was collected. The one-dimensional first increment of the NOESY experiment was collected using 128 scans with 4 dummy scans. 65K points per spectrum were collected which resulted in an acquisition time of 3.21 s. All NMR spectra were processed using the AU program apk0.noe. This AU program automatically corrects phase, baseline, and chemical shift registration relative to TSP in TopSpin 3.1."	"NMR spectra bucketing and PCA were conducted using Amix (Bruker Biospin, Billerica, MA, USA). Manual bucketing employed unequal bucket widths to optimize quantification of one peak per bucket in order to accurately preserve metabolite information . All spectra were subjected to total intensity normalization  and Pareto scaling was applied before PCA. Residual water and internal standard peaks were excluded from analysis. Statistical significance analysis of the loadings data was performed using Amix based on the procedure published by Goodpaster et al. except that a Kruskal-Wallis test was used instead of the Mann-Whitney U test for non-parametric analysis of datasets that were not normally distributed."	"Metabolites were identified using the Chenomx NMR suit (Chenomx Inc. Edmonton, Alberta, Canada). "
Study Protocol URI	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Version	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name	""	"Extraction Method"	"NMR tube type 3 mm;Temperature 298 K;Sample pH 7.4;Solvent D2O"	"Magnetic field strength;Number of transients;Pulse sequence name;NMR Probe;Instrument"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Accession Number	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Parameters Name Term Source REF	""	""	";;;"	";;;;"	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Name	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Accession Number	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
Study Protocol Components Type Term Source REF	""	""	""	""	""	""	""
STUDY CONTACTS
Study Person Last Name	"Kennedy"	"Wang"
Study Person First Name	"Michael"	"Bo"
Study Person Mid Initials	"A"	""
Study Person Email	"kennedm4@miamioh.edu"	"wangb3@miamioh.edu"
Study Person Phone	"513-529-8267"	""
Study Person Fax	"513-529-5715"	""
Study Person Address	"106 Hughes Laboratories
651 East High Street
Oxford, OH 45056
"	""
Study Person Affiliation	"Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Miami University"	""
Study Person Roles	"Principal Investigator"	""
Study Person Roles Term Accession Number	""	""
Study Person Roles Term Source REF	""	""
